---
id: 94
title: How does Congress proceed in making the laws of the land?
slug: pc-94
categories:
  - powers
authorId: jdhall
---

A member usually proposes that other select members usually with expertise in the area of the proposed law, called a committee, shall consider his explanation for whether a new law, or change of law concerning a particular issue, warrants further consideration. If a majority of the members think it will in fact be best to consider the matter, they order certain other members to do so. These members, or committees, meet together, and having considered the proposal, determine whether it is proper to advise the members of the whole House to make a law respecting it. If they do think it is proper, they draft the exact words that they deem best express the intent of the new law. This writing is called a bill. They return to the House, and either in writing or by word of mouth, declare what they have proposed, and state the reasons for having proposed it. Such a statement is called a "committee's report." The bill is then read twice. The member who first proposed the matter now further proposes (or moves, as it is called) that this bill be considered by all the members. If this is agreed to, the bill is then taken under consideration. Every member has an opportunity to propose alterations; and every member may give reasons why such a bill ought or ought not to be passed into law. If any alterations are made, the Bill as altered is written over again and read a third time. If after full consideration, it is finally agreed to, it has then passed the house.
